Welcome back.
We saw the first part of a conditional where we can write if and then a condition and some code will
run.
Next we're going to talk about a second component which is called else if you can think of else if as
if the first condition was not true maybe this other thing will be true.
It will only be attempted if the first part if the if was false.
So if we try it out over here I'm in a new file again.
I kept my code from the last section or the last video where we're doing a performance review.
Let's say this is our guide if rating is three.
That person is a superstar.
If rating is two they meet expectations.
So with what we know right now without else if we could just write a second condition if rating equals
equals to console that log meets expectations like that.
And this does work if I make rating too.
We'll only see meets expectations but this is not the same thing as using an.
Else if if we have two separate ifs there's certain scenarios where both of them could be true instead
of checking if rating is equal to three.
But if we said if it is I don't know.
Equal to three and then this one was greater than or equal to two.
If we change rating to three both of these will be true and we end up with both of them printed out.
Now that's kind of an arbitrary example because in our case rating is really just three to one or something
else.
But the point is this is a different structure.
We have two conditionals first one runs if it's true this code runs and regardless of whether this one
actually worked if this was true or not.
The second one will be attempted but if we change our structure and we use an.
Else if only one of them will ever run.
So if we add else if it follows the exact same format where we have our parentheses and a condition
we just add else instead of purely if so else if rating equals two we'll console that log meets expectations
we'll save refresh the page and when rating is to this prints out the first one is tempted.
It's false.
So we try this one if that one didn't work.
Try this if this one didn't work we can add in multiple else ifs.
I have a side on it.
We can have as many as we want.
You probably don't want to have a ton of them.
Your code can get pretty long and there might be a better way to refactor or rewrite your massive conditional
but it is valid javascript so we could add in the same thing.
I'm just going to duplicate this.
I'll select it and then shift option down arrow and I'll say if rating is equal to one or else if rating
is equal to one needs improvement refresh we get the same result.
If rating is one we get needs improvement it attempts this it's false it moves on.
Maybe this one that's false.
It moves on.
How about this one.
In our case it's true when rating is one.
So we get this printed out so elusive is a another option to try after the first one does not work and
else if it's only valid if there is an if before it otherwise it doesn't make sense in JavaScript will
freak out at you.
You can see it's highlighting it for me and V.S. code it's expecting some sort of conditional to come
before it meaning it wants.
So they have to be paired.
We have our if and then optionally a bunch of else ifs.
So that's pretty much it for else.
It's relatively straightforward if you understand if it's the same idea.
It's just a second option or third or fourth or however many you need after the first one if it was
false.
We have one more piece of the puzzle.
We'll talk about it in the next video.
Else.